.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*-

============================================
 `David Goodger’s <../>`__ Personal Beliefs
============================================

:pronounced: like “Badger”, but **Good**!
:email: goodger@python.org


A collection of truths, axioms, and biases.

.. sidebar:: Related Pages
   :class: large

   * `Quotes <quotes.html>`__

   * `My Graphics <../projects/graphics>`__

   * `Personal page <./>`__

   * `Home page <../>`__

.. contents::


Worldview
=========

.. image:: brights_logo.gif
   :align: right
   :class: borderless
   :target: http://www.the-brights.net/

I am a naturalist/rationalist/humanist/Bright_:

    A **bright** is an individual whose worldview is naturalistic
    (free from supernatural and mystical elements).

(I don’t like the label “atheist” because it describes only an
absence, a negative.  If I labelled myself an atheist it would only
describe what I am *not*: I don’t believe in supernatural creators.
This is true, but it’s only the consequence of what I do believe,
which is much more important. When asked [e.g. on a census form] what
my religion is, I answer "none"; atheism is *not* a religion, it is
the *absence* of religion.)

I am an ethical, moral person.  My ethics and morals come from
respect, love, and awe for the nature of the universe, society, and
for life itself.

I “believe” in science, but it is a rational and flexible belief,
based on evidence and reproducible, verifiable, and falsifiable
experiment.  The essential difference, as I see it, is this: **science
is evidence without faith, while religion is faith without evidence**.
I try to remain open-minded: I am willing to entertain the idea that I
am wrong, and I am willing re-examine my beliefs, given compelling new
evidence.  But as Carl Sagan stated,

    Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence.

Rather than stating “I believe in science,” it may be better to state
that “I *trust* the process of science and the scientific method,”
because |science works|_.  Given enough time and resources, I could
reproduce the experiments and observations that have produced our
understanding of the laws of nature.

I am generally tolerant of religions, superstitions, and other
supernatural belief systems -- even though I find them irrational and
misguided at best -- as long as it is kept personal.  What I cannot
tolerate is someone imposing their worldview on me or on others.

.. _Bright: http://www.the-brights.net/

.. |science works| replace:: **science works**
.. _`science works`: http://store.xkcd.com/xkcd/#Science


Parenting
=========

.. image:: kids.png
   :align: right

A great book for new parents is `The First Three Years of Life`, by
Burton L. White.  Rather than giving a cookie-cutter recipie for all
kids (who are all different), it gives insight into the thought
processes of children from newborns to 3 years of age, and tips for
humane discipline.  A newborn’s cry is very different from a
1-year-old’s cry.

* Children need structure and discipline in their lives.  They need to
  have *clear* and **enforced** limits.

* Corporal punishment is never the solution.  It is completely
  unacceptable to strike a child (or an adult, except in
  self-defense).

* Children *will* test their limits.  But that’s a good sign, and
  shouldn’t be discouraged *too* much.

* Raising young children is a *more*-than-full-time job.  The ideal
  child-raising environment includes at least one full-time parent.

* Parents have to decide how much time to devote to their children,
  and how much money they want to make.  It’s a compromise.

* Full-time parenting is a hard job, and parents need breaks!

* A license is required to drive a car, but not to raise a child.
  That’s a real shame, because there are so many bad parents out
  there.


Marriage
========

* Marriage is a lifelong commitment.  If you’re not *absolutely*
  committed to spending your *entire* life with your significant other,
  don’t get married.

* Many people enter into marriage lightly, and the high divorce rate
  is the result.

* Sometimes relationships can be hard, but you have to persevere.
  Marriage does not allow for quitters.

* Marriage implies -- or should imply -- *unconditional* love.

* For better or for worse, in richer and in poorer... these are
  *vows*.  They’re not just platitudes that can be ignored when they
  prove inconvenient.


Operating Systems
=================

* The `Mac <http://www.apple.com>`_, with `OS X
  <http://www.apple.com/osx/>`_, is the best desktop computing
  platform around for non-techno-geeks.  The hardware is solid, and the software **just
  works**.  It’s the best of both worlds: a world-class graphical user
  interface on top of a solid and secure BSD Unix foundation.  On my
  Mac, I can get stuff done, without having to fiddle.

  See `my Mac OS X page <../professional/osx.html>`__.

* GNU/Linux is an excellent operating system for servers and
  hobbyists.  It has even become usable on the desktop for ordinary
  people.

* The `Ubuntu <http://www.ubuntu.org>`_ distribution of GNU/Linux
  (based on `Debian <http://www.debian.org>`_) is an excellent choice,
  both for servers and for the desktop.  It’s what I use.

* Windows sucks.  But if you’re a Unix/Linux-head and have to use it,
  be sure to install `Cygwin <http://www.cygwin.org>`_.

Windows users are simply the unfortunates who have never tried Macs.
They should be pitied, and they should be enlightened.


Software
========

* Information wants to be free.  Data wants to be free.  Software
  wants to be free.

* Any attempt to restrict access to data via DRM (digital restrictions
  management) is bound to fail.  “DRM” is also known as Content
  Restriction Annulment and Protection, or “CRAP”.

* `Free/Libre <http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html>`_ and
  `Open-Source <http://opensource.org/docs/definition.php>`_ Software
  (FOSS or FLOSS) is the way of the future, and it’s here today.

* Choose Free software.  Free as in *freedom*, as in *free speech*.

  Compare operating systems to automobiles.  Windows is like a car
  with its hood locked shut, and only Microsoft has the keys.
  Although you can repaint the car or add fuzzy dice, only Microsoft
  can modify the engine.  The GNU/Linux car’s engine is open and
  accessible; the blueprints and schematics can be found in the glove
  compartment.  You can study it, take it apart, modify it, fix it
  yourself or have someone fix it for you.

  But since this is software and not automobiles we’re talking about,
  you can also copy Free software and share it with your friends,
  neighbors, or even the whole world.  People will thank you.  Try to
  do what with proprietary software and the police will arrest you.

  With Free software, **you** have the **freedom** to do whatever
  **you** like.

* `Software patents are evil and wrong`__, and “clearly a menace to
  society and innovation” (Georg Greve, president of the Free Software
  Foundation Europe).

  __ http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/fighting-software-patents.html

* Emacs__ rocks.  But it’s not for everyone.

  __ http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/emacs.html


Programming
===========

.. image:: python-logo.png
   :target: http://www.python.org
   :class: borderless
   :align: right

* `Python <http://www.python.org>`_ is the best programming language
  out there, bar none.  It scales from short scripts to large systems,
  and is applicable to the whole range of developers, from beginners
  to experienced gurus.  The only thing that it isn’t applicable to is
  some speed-sensitive applications, like some device drivers and the
  kernels of operating systems.

  I value my `freedom <http://www.journalhome.com/codecraft/9003/>`__
  much more than any false sense of safety or security provided by
  other languages (like C++, Java, etc.).

  And Python fits my brain.

* `Extreme Programming (XP) <http://www.extremeprogramming.org/>`__ is
  a great set of lightweight practices that help project teams produce
  excellent software efficiently.  It may not be universally
  applicable, but it’s definitely worth a look.

* UML is useful for formally documenting a system, and has its place
  in the planning process.  But it can easily be overused and abused,
  and often is.  It’s a tool, but it’s no silver bullet.


Copyright
=========

.. image:: ../projects/graphics/mic2.png
   :target: ../projects/graphics/#mickeys-infinite-copyright
   :class: borderless
   :align: right

* The U.S. has been pushing global copyright terms to extremes, and
  must be reined in.  Copyright now lasts far too long.  Every time
  that `Steamboat Willie (the first incarnation of Mickey Mouse)
  <../projects/graphics/#mickeys-infinite-copyright>`_ nears the end
  of his copyright term, the U.S. Congress passes a law to extend
  copyright terms.  The current copyright term is the author’s
  lifetime plus 70 years for individual works, or 95 years for
  corporate works.

  The chances of anything created today entering the public domain in
  our lifetimes is close to nil!

* The Canadian copyright `Bill C-60
  <http://www.digital-copyright.ca/static/billc60/>`_ is a bad bill.
  It aims to import the US copyright term extensions and fair use
  limitations to Canada.


Miscellaneous
=============

* People carrying on extended conversations on cell phones in
  restaurants, in elevators, and on
  public transportation are loud, rude, and obnoxious.

* Toilet paper should be installed so that the hanging end is *away*
  from the wall.

* Men should not use sit-down toilets as stand-up urinals.  If you don’t
  believe this, you probably don’t clean your own bathroom.  Perhaps
  this makes me a sitzpinkler, I don’t care.  Hell, I also enjoy the
  occasional quiche.

* The best configuration for recumbent cycling is short-wheelbase,
  under-seat steering.  This is merely my belief and personal
  preference though, untested.
