=================================================================
 A Week at `PyCon DC 2004 <http://pycon.org/dc2004/>`__ -- Day 8
=================================================================

------------------------------------
 Heading Home -- Saturday, March 27
------------------------------------

:Author: David Goodger
:Contact: goodger@python.org

It was raining this morning.  Packed up and left the hostel at 9am,
took a bus down to a metro station then on to Pentagon City.  I'm not
sure, but I think the "Fashion Center" mall there may have been the
mall in `Minority Report <http://us.imdb.com/title/tt0181689>`__, and
possibly also in `No Way Out <http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0093640>`__.
Bought a "PFC" -- portable folding cart -- for my bags because I was
getting tired and sore carrying them around.  A couple more wee
gifties for the kids.  Visited the `Bang & Olufsen
<http://www.bang-olufsen.com/>`__ store, and fantasized.

On the opposite side of the street -- reachable via a metro underpass
-- was another mall, not so upscale.  Browsed around a Borders
book/CD/DVD/coffee store, and a Best Buy.  Then it was time to get to
the airport, 2 stops away.

Got my boarding pass, and two last-minute gifts: a nice bookmark for
my wife, and a black & yellow "jungle carpet python" plushie, for my
kids.  And for me, too, I guess -- I'll name it "Monty" and it'll be a
cousin to Eric, the conference mascot brought by Bill Sconce.  A
Cinnabon later, and it was time to get to the gate.  Spent my last 90
US cents on some mints -- no currency to carry home.

On takeoff I had a good view of the Pentagon, and I see the need for
so much security.  The airport is literally a stone's throw away, and
a last-minute course correction would be (and was) deadly.  I wonder
if security is the reason why, on both arrival in and departure from
DC, the plane wasn't brought all the way to the jetway.  Passengers
had to go down a flight of stairs to the tarmac and back up.

As I write this on the plane, I look back on the last week as an
unmitigated success.  I met loads of people I'd only ever exchanged
email with before, and plenty others new to me.  It's amazing the
places my software has gotten to -- rumored to be in use at NASA, the
NSA, the OSAF, and I'm sure at many other companies and organizations
large and small.  I guess Docutils and reStructuredText have hit a
sweet spot.

Warms my heart.

* up: `Contents <./>`__
