==================================================================
 A Week at `PyCon DC 2004 <http://pycon.org/dc2004/>`__ --  Day 0
==================================================================

---------------------------------------------
 Arrival and Sightseeing -- Friday, March 19
---------------------------------------------

:Author: David Goodger
:Contact: goodger@python.org

6:30am -- Left home after saying goodbye to my wife & kids.  I'll miss
them; hope they miss me too!

7am -- Arrived at Pierre Elliott Trudeau (formerly Dorval)
International Airport.  Got my boarding pass from a kiosk with my
credit card.  Neat.  Checked one bag, but the new security requires me
to carry it through US customs & immigration.  Then, because my
destination was Reagan National Airport, a security guard pawed
through my *checked* bag and sent it through X-ray.  Fine.

But when I got to the gate, I had to undergo another search with a
hand-held metal detector, including my shoes.  My carry-on, jacket,
and wallet were searched too.

I feel safe now.

10:30am -- Arrived in DC after an uneventful flight.  Took the metro
in to Dupont Circle, but I should've gone one further -- long walk.
In the metro, I kept hearing the PA system saying "George Clinton".  I
finally realized I was misunderstanding "doors closing" through a poor
speaker system.

Checked in at the `Washington International Student Center`__ (WISC)
by a Japanese guy named Tomo, with whom I had a nice conversation.
WISC is a hostel, very no-frills.  Each room has 3 sets of triple bunk
beds, everything needs a paint job, but the bathrooms are clean.
Can't beat $22/night, breakfast included (toast, jelly, and cheap
"citrus punch").

__ http://www.washingtondchostel.com

12:30pm -- Made my bed, dropped off my stuff, and headed in to the
`Smithsonian museums
<http://smithsonian.org/visit/infocenter/dcmuseum.htm>`__.  Tomo noted
that pattern: whereas Americans usually wanted to see the White House
first, Canadians tended toward the Smithsonian.  I did the geekiest
two: `Air & Space <http://www.nasm.si.edu/>`__ and `Natural History
<http://www.mnh.si.edu/>`__.  Apollo capsule, moon lander, Saturn V
engines -- very cool.  Hope diamond, crystals and mineral formations
-- amazingly beautiful.

I consider this an "advance scout" mission for the day when my whole
family visits.  That happened once before, when I went to France on
business and had a free day in Paris.  Saw all the major sights --
from the outside.  Didn't have time to wait in line to get in.

Washington's `National Mall <http://www.nps.gov/nama/>`__ is a lot
like the Champs Elysee in Paris.  The `Washington Monument
<http://www.nps.gov/wash/>`__ was closed by the time I got there, but
it's so huge that didn't really matter.

I was a bit disappointed that the Reflecting Pool was empty.  I wanted
to do the "Forrest?" "Jenny?" "Forrest!" "Jenny!" scene or at least
imagine it, but no luck.

The new `World War II Memorial <http://www.wwiimemorial.com>`__,
around the Rainbow Pool, looks quite impressive.  Almost ready to
open.

The `Lincoln Memorial <http://www.nps.gov/linc/>`__ was most
impressive.  I'd never read the entire Gettysburg Address, so it was
moving to read it carved into the wall.

Next, I visited the `Korean War Veterans Memorial
<http://www.nps.gov/kowa/>`__ -- very moving.  Especially reading
these words carved into the wall: "Freedom Is Not Free".

The `Vietnam Veterans Memorial <http://www.nps.gov/vive/>`__ was
particularly moving.  I know no one who fought in Vietnam or lost a
relative or friend there, but still I felt tears welling up.  The
names just go on and on.  What a waste of life, on both sides.  War
has no winners, only losers, but the price must be paid from time to
time.

Back to WISC, dropped off the Smithsonian gifts for the wife & kids.
Then off to Best Buy to check out DVDs.  I found a few that were good
deals, considering the exchange rate.  But only a few.  Most had the
same price point in US dollars as in Canadian, favoring the Canadian
consumer.

10pm -- Back at WISC now.  Had no dinner, but don't feel hungry.  Had
a Polish sausage between Smithsonian museums around 2:30.

I'll be heading for bed soon.  I don't have an alarm clock or watch for
the morning, but I should be able to wake up in time.

I noticed that DC is a jaywalking town, much like Montreal.  Warms my
heart.

* next: `Day 1 -- Sprint Day 1 -- Saturday, March 20 <day_1.html>`__
* up: `Contents <./>`__
