=================================================================
 A Week at `PyCon DC 2004 <http://pycon.org/dc2004/>`__ -- Day 4
=================================================================

-----------------------------------
 Sprint Day 4 -- Tuesday, March 23
-----------------------------------

:Author: David Goodger
:Contact: goodger@python.org

Met two fellow PyConeers at the hostel at breakfast: Tamer Fahmy of
Austria, and Andrew Gaul of the USA.  We walked down to GWU together.
When I introduced myself, I was asked my area of interest.  I answered
"Docutils," and Andrew said something like, "Oh, right!  You're
famous!"  In a very small circle, perhaps.

Today was the last day of the `Docutils sprint`_.  As on each of the
previous days, I did an architecture & code walk-through and then
hacking continued.  In addition to hacking, we formed a human assembly
line and stuffed tote bags.  Most of the sprinters present registered
and received their totes and T-shirts.  As a PyCon volunteer, I
received a second, black "Event Staff" shirt.  Good thing, too; I'd
planned it that way.  Brought only 6 shirts for an 8-night stay.

Lloyd Kvam joined the Docutils sprint today, and worked on `The
Docutils Document Tree <http://docutils.sf.net/spec/doctree.html>`__
document.  (How many times can *you* say "doc" in a single sentence?)
Reggie completed the fragment/publish_parts API.  Matt, Ed & Bill,
Aahz, and Ian all made progress.  It's been a fun, productive four
days.

Laura Creighton offered some advice.  She and Jacob Hallen hadn't been
able to devote a lot of time to the sprint, but would have had there
been a collection of smaller tasks (bug fixes, tests, docs, etc.)
prepared beforehand.  Valid point; I'll have to take that into account
if and when I do another sprint.

Around 7pm, Laura, Jacob, Armin Rigo, and I headed out to Georgetown
for dinner at `Makoto
<http://www.epicurious.com/erg/dc/makoto.html>`__, a tiny Japanese
restaurant.  Laura's treat.  It turns out that back when she wrote me
several times asking for reST help, it was regarding the PyPy spec
draft she was writing, and she felt she owed me a meal.  The meal was
excellent, 8 or 10 courses (lost count): sashimi, sushi, yakimono,
soup, on and on.

We took a bus back, and I transferred up to Adams-Morgan.  Gotta get
up early tomorrow -- manning the registration desk at 8am.

* next: `Day 5 -- Conference Day 1 -- Wednesday, March 24 <day_5.html>`__
* up: `Contents <./>`__

.. _Docutils sprint: http://www.python.org/cgi-bin/moinmoin/DocutilsSprint
